Elliott Stoddard
Software Engineer
Ambient Sensors

March 6th 2018

CEO Dr. Robert Davidson, 

I am writing you today to share two big problems with my employment at Ambient Sensors. When I agreed to work for Ambient Sensors, I understood that there would be times when I did not get paid. But it was clearly stated that those times would be when there were no customers, and I would not be required to work. Having free time to work on my own projects is something I was looking forward too. 

But now I am commuting though tough traffic, working long hours, and singularly developing great software with little guidance and no documentation. After all of my effort I have only been paid for my first week of work. I have been working for Ambient Sensors since January 22. That is more than a month of full time work, for a client, without a paycheck. Ambient Sensors owes me for approximately 200 hours of work. At my pay rate of $50 an hour, that is $10,000 in back pay before deductions. 

Last week, on March 1st, you told me that the client has been making payments, and that you would make sure to get me a check the next day. I have not received the check, or an explanation off why I have not been paid. Rather than talk truthfully to me, and ask for my help, you avoid me, and lie to me. I want to be part of the team, but you are treating me like an outsider you can abuse. 

I enjoy writing software, and this project uses a lot of technology I want to work with. The current code base is something I am proud of, and I want to complete. But with the documentation, guidance and support I have received, I may as well be working for myself. This increases the stress on me, and makes it almost impossible to deliver the product you or the customer wants. 

Software developers work best with frequent feedback, and a documented understanding of what is expected. Until March 5th when I shared pictures of the app, unsolicited, no one else has even seen, or asked to see what the user interface looks like. 

The one exception is Sandra, she has helped me a lot by troubleshoot the Bluetooth Low Energy interface with me. 

This situation of no pay and no management cannot continue, and it won’t. I have been more than fair for more than a month, working diligently, and regularly checking in my work product, so that you have access to it. 

Unless an arrangement is made to pay me for the time I have worked, I have no option but to assume that I have been laid off by Ambient Sensors because of a lack of corporate funds. 


Sincerely, 




Elliott Stoddard


CC: 	CTO Sandra Capri
	CSA Barry Kurtz
	F. Alfredo Rego
